At Saccharinthians 1 and 3, Jehovah is described as the God of all comfort and God of tender
mercies.
And what is the biblical understanding of the word comfort in this context?
It literally means calling to one side, standing beside a person to encourage him when he's
going through a very difficult time.
One Bible scholar described comfort this way.
The word always means more than soothing sympathy.
The Christian comfort is that which brings courage and enables a man to cope with all that
life can do to him.
And that describes Jehovah, doesn't it?
He's also called the Father of tender mercies, and that expression tender mercies means to
feel pity and cares very much.
And Jehovah is the source of heartfelt pity and care.
Now, just illustrate that.
Let's open our Bibles to Psalm 23 and look at verse 1.
And notice how Jehovah is always there standing beside as a caring shepherd.
Psalm 23 1 says, Jehovah is my shepherd.
I will lack nothing.
So whatever life throws at us in line with the word of comfort, Jehovah is there a caring
shepherd will provide what we need.
And this expression shepherd is very fitting because the Middle Eastern shepherd cared
deeply for his sheep.
He would inspect them every day.
He knew their names.
And if you saw any indication of sickness or pain, he would treat it right away.
He would give the medicine if it was needed.
And if they were too weak to stand up while they were ever recovering, he would actually
literally hold them up so that they would not lie down and die and give up.
Well, Jehovah is there for us, isn't he?
When we go through difficulties and we just feel like lying down, he's there to carry
the load for us and to prop us up as a caring shepherd.
And this concept of having what we need is also highlighted at 2 Timothy chapter 3 verses
16 and 17.
Paul under inspiration is talking about the inspired scriptures and how beneficial they are.
And what is the result of one taking advantage of the comfort Jehovah gives through the scriptures?
It says so that the man of God may be fully competent, completely equipped for every
good work.
And we might add not only every good work, but everything that life may bring upon us.
That expression completely equipped literally means having been fitted out.
And sometimes it was used to describe a boat that was completely outfitted with everything
that was needed for a successful voyage.
Or it may refer to a machine that was always able to live up to what it was designed
to do.
So Jehovah always gives us what we need regardless of the nature of the stress or strain.
Now just to use one illustration of how Jehovah's Word can help us, it's like Jehovah
standing by us to prop us up.
Let's talk about something that can be very emotionally draining and very difficult
to deal with, and that's loneliness.
loneliness is longing to be loved by someone, to be understood, to feel needed and wanted,
appreciated.
And when those things are not met, a person can feel very empty inside.
Now being alone is not the same as loneliness, is it?
Being alone is a state of a geographic situation.
This is an emotional condition, because some of the loneliest people in the world are
surrounded by millions in large cities.
So it's not just having people around, and there has to be a connection there.
There has to be more than just people.
Well, notice the words of Psalm 88, or rather, 68 verse 6, that shows what Jehovah does for
those who may be experiencing loneliness.
The first part of Psalm 68 verse 6 says, God gives those who are alone a home to dwell
in.
Now we notice here, he didn't say in this case, he gives him a house, a shelter, a cover,
it's true, Jehovah does that, but a home conveys much more, doesn't it?
A home is a place where we have family members that get along, work together, play together.
There's a united sense of belonging.
They feel needed, wanted, and appreciated when there's a happy family life.
And these joyful relationships become the cure to loneliness.
Now, just to illustrate that point, one of our sisters, as reported on in our public
watchtower, number one edition, 2018, had suffered many losses, and she said she felt very alone.
But then she considered the very text we've just read at Psalm 68 verse 6, and notice what
she said, I knew that the verse could not just mean a home in a physical sense now.
Rather, I came to understand that God offers us a spiritual home, a place of real safety
that provides genuine connections and emotional attachment to others who love Jehovah.
So Jehovah gave her a home, not just a house, gave her a home with relationships and people
that cared about her, and she felt less lonely.
But Jehovah provides that, doesn't he?
Now, in line with that same thought, let's open our Bibles to Mark chapter 10, Mark
chapter 10, and we'll see again the difference between a house and relationships.
From Mark chapter 10, Jesus is talking about this matter of a person leading the possessions,
houses, family, for the sake of the good news.
And so what does he say about that?
Well, in verse 29, he says this of Mark 10, truly I say to you, no one who has left
a house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children.
So he distinguishes between a house and relationships.
And he says that in imitation of his father, he's going to make sure that those who become
isolated or give up things, or what are they going to get?
Verse 30, a hundred times more now, not just in a house, but brothers, sisters, mothers
and children.
The loneliness factor is addressed within the arrangements and provisions that come from
serving Jehovah and being a disciple of Christ.
So how good it is for us to remember that we can imitate Jehovah.
And even though we're surrounded by many people here, in our Bethel family and in our other
assignments, we always want to make sure that it's not just being around a lot of people,
we're doing what we can like Jehovah to stand beside comfort, show that we really care
and help them to get away from any feelings of loneliness that they may be experiencing.
Well, one caution we'd like to mention in the conclusion of our little discussion this
morning is the fact that we have to be careful that we don't default to false comforters.
We have the best comforters, don't we?
We have Jehovah.
We have Christ Jesus.
We have a loving brotherhood, but sometimes when a person is going through stress or
loneliness of other trials, false comforters can make matters worse.
Remember how Jehovah described his so-called friends who came to comfort him and all of
his trials?
In Job 162, he said, all of you are troublesome comforters.
And in Job 134, he said, you are useless physicians.
They weren't helping a bit.
In fact, they made his situation worse because because of the things he said and their attitude
to word joke, brought out some of them, not so good points in Job, they made his situation
worse.
Well, what could be like a false comforter today, useless troublesome?
Well, sometimes people will turn to an escape route.
If they're not careful, they'll turn to a false comforter in the form of overindulgence
or the misuse, the immoderate use of alcohol, trying to just escape what they may be feeling
or experiencing.
Sometimes people will escape by means of fantasizing about things that are totally improper, thinking
I'll escape and provide some relief, but it makes things worse, doesn't it?
Or our person may be discouraged and resort to some old weakness of the flesh, thinking
that a temporary moment of pleasure might make them feel better.
But all those things are not true comforters, are they?
They make matters worse.
They create the need for more comforters.
So in imitation of Jehovah, may we do what we can to comfort others, but may we always
remember our comforter is our loving creator, the father of tender mercies, the God of
all Comfort, who helps us to cope with whatever life throws at us.